{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh9000\viewkind0
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Vegastrike for OS X README\
----------------------------------------\

\f1\b     Building and installing - \

\f0\b0         First things first:  Make sure you have the dependencies filled out. Most of these can easily be installed using fink (fink.sourceforge.net)  If you have a specfic reason to not use fink in it's standard configuration, make sure you pass options to configure reflecting the differences. Right now configure epects everything to be where fink would install it. The dependencies are:\
        - SDL (Framework or library, just make sure your sdl-config script works)\
        - expat\
        - libpng\
        - Python (?Only needed for compiling?) I built vegastrike using the framework, but the library should work as well. Might need to pass a variable to configure saying otherwise though.\
\
        Then check the latest code out from CVS. This'll (Hopefully) compile into a double-cliackable application with mission selector. :-D   The first thing you want to do once you got all the code from CVS is to open up Terminal to the code's directory and execute these commands:\
    aclocal\
    automake -a --add-missing\
    autoconf configure.in > configure\
    ./configure --enable-macosx-bundle\
\
       Then you can either use make. Or build using the project for ProjectBuilder.\
       It is also possible to build vegastrike as a standard executable only by ommitting the --enable-macosx-bundle from the configure line.\
\

\f1\b     Playing -\

\f0\b0         Just place the application in the data directory and then double-click.\
\

\f1\b     Remaining Issues - \

\f0\b0     - The biggy: Most of the tim glLockFragment dies when vegastrike is spawned by the mission selector. So most missions don't work. This is another OS X GLUT issue.\
    - The current method of making it a double clickable application is shoddy, it simply copies the executable in there. Works, but it's not elegant.\
    - The app must be run from the data directory.\
    - The dependencies are a little bit harder to install than it should be for novice users.  It would be nice to handle this in a better manner.\
    - Bugs. I know there in there.\
    There are some stability issues when running the double clickable app. Especially if using the mission selector to spawn vegastrike. You can run vegastrike from the terminal to improve stability also.\
\
   Have fun!\
-Corey O'Connor\
Lead Programmer\
DogHeadBone Software\
oconnorc@dogheadbone.com\
www.dogheadbone.com}