.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH VEGASTRIKE 1 "Current" "Version 0.6.0" "Vega Strike 0.6.0"
.SH NAME
Vega Strike Upon The Coldest Sea \- Trade, Fight and Explore the Universe
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "vegasettings"
.PP
.BI "vegastrike " "[-ddata_dir] [-px,y,z] [-jsector/starsystem]"
.IR missionname
.PP
The recommended way to run Vega Strike is to first run
.B 
vegasettings
to configure your system, then invoke the 
.B
vegastrike
executable and begin a New Game.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vegasettings
.I program
sets up the default save game and copies the vegastrike.config file to a user's ~/.vegastrike directory
.PP
.B vegastrike
.I program
Launches Vega Strike and allows user to select a campaign to run or load a save game. Save games must be saved at a base or planet.
.PP
.SH REQUIREMENTS AND INSTALLATION
run the 
.B vegasettings
program to set up your specific config options, then invoke 
.B vegastrike
.PP
FIXME: Read the README.md file in
.br
.I "/usr/share/doc/vegastrike"
or in color at
.br
.I FIXME: http://vegastrike.sourceforge.net/player_tutorial/
to learn the keybindings and walk through a tutorial.
.br
FIXME: More information can be obtained from the Vega Strike website at
.I http://vegastrike.sourceforge.net/
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I -d/my/data/dir
specifies 
.I
/my/data/dir
as the path for finding the vega strike data.  The default is /usr/share/vegastrike/data
.TP
.I -p1024,2405,1245090101
Forces the player's starting location to be at x= 1024, y= 2405, z=1245090101
.TP
.I -jgemini_sector/troy
Forces the player to start in the troy system in gemini sector.
.TP
.I missionname
Specifies a mission for vegastrike to run.  Default is /usr/share/vegastrike/data/mission/exploration/explore_universe.mission.

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
.B Vega Strike
expects a configuration file (
.I $HOME/.vegastrike/vegastrike.config
(~/.vegastrike/vegastrike.config)
), which is modified by
.B vegasettings
.br
A simple illustration of how to adjust vegastrike.config and the associated keybindings and options is in the readme.txt included in the documentation and also in the player tutorial listed above.
.SH AUTHORS
.B vegastrike
is available thanks to the work of many developers.  For a listing
of the authors, please see the file 
.I FIXME: http://vegastrike.sourceforge.net/credits.html
in the top-level directory of the source distribution.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.B vegastrike
can be distributed under the terms of the X11 license.  A copy of the
license is in the file
.B LICENSE
in the top-level directory of the source distribution.
.SH BUGS
.PP
FIXME: Issues with Vega Strike may be reported at
.I https://github.com/vegastrike/Vega-Strike-Engine-Source/issues
If you want to report a bug, please tell us which mission you ran, copy the last few lines of stdout and stderr, and describe the bug in detail, and what lead up to it.  It would be most helpful if you included a stack trace by compiling and running vegastrike from source.
.PP
For problems and suggestions with this manpage, please send a note to
FIXME: Daniel Horn <hellcatv@hotmail.com>.
.SH AVAILABILITY
The most recent public version of 
.B vegastrike
can be obtained from https://github.com/vegastrike/Vega-Strike-Engine-Source/releases
.PP
The latest snapshot of the code may be obtained via git.  For information
on how to do this, please see the README.md at the Vega Strike github page:
.I
https://github.com/vegastrike/Vega-Strike-Engine-Source
.PP
FIXME: The Vega Strike github wiki contains a great deal of information about
.B vegastrike.
.PP
The
.B vegastrike
discussion forum lives at
.I FIXME
It is used for discussion of various 
.B vegastrike end user aspects/help.
.PP
To follow
.B vegastrike
development, you might want to star the
.B vegastrike
github page at
.I https://github.com/vegastrike/Vega-Strike-Engine-Source
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP
.I /usr/bin/vegastrike
The 
.B vegastrike
engine.
.TP
.I /usr/bin/vegasettings
The Vega Strike Settings utility.
.TP 
.I /usr/share/vegastrike
The 
.B vegastrike
data files
.TP 
.I /usr/share/man/man1
Directory containg
.B this file 
.TP
.I ~/.vegastrike/vegastrike.config
User-specific configuration file
.TP 
.I ~/.vegastrike
Directory containing user specific data managed by 
.B vegastrike. 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR FIXME: http://vegastrike.sourceforge.net/player_tutorial
.BR /usr/share/doc/vegastrike
