.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH VEGASTRIKE 1 "Current" "Version 0.9.2" "Vega Strike 0.9.2"
.SH NAME
Vega Strike: Upon The Coldest Sea - Trade, Fight, and Explore the Universe
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS
vegasettings
.PP
Vega Strike Configuration
.SS
vegastrike-engine -ddata_dir [-px,y,z] [-jsector/starsystem] [missionname]
.SS
vegastrike [-ddata_dir] [-px,y,z] [-jsector/starsystem] [missionname]
.PP
Vega Strike Game Engine
.PP
It is recommended to run
.ft I
vegasettings
.ft P
first to configure your system, then invoke
.ft I
vegastrike-engine
.ft P
or
.ft I
vegastrike
.ft P
to start a New Game.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS
vegasettings
.PP
Program to create and edit the settings for Vega Strike.
.SS
vegastrike-engine
.PP
Launch Vega Strike and allows the user to select a campaign to run or load a saved game.
This requires that the either the data directory be specified on the command-line or
that it is the current working directory of the executable.
.PP
Saved games must be saved at a base or planet.
.SS
vegastrike
.PP
Same as
.ft I
vegastrike-engine
.ft P
except that it enables the legacy behavior of searching for the data directory using
known installation points for the data assets.
.SH REQUIREMENTS AND INSTALLATION
.SS Installation
For general installation instructions see https://www.vega-strike.org/install/.
.SS Initial Configuration
On the first use one must run
.ft I
vegasettings
.ft P
in order to configure the game. Once run it only needs to be run again if you want to change the configuration.
.SS
General Documentation
.PP
There is general documentation installed at /usr/share/vegastrike/documentation. More thorough and community maintained
documentation is also available at https://wiki.vega-strike.org/Manual:Tutorial.
.SS
Key Bindings
.PP
Some information about key bindings can be found at https://wiki.vega-strike.org/Manual:Keyboard_layout; however,
the authoritative key bindings are stored in the configuration file under <bindings>.
.SS
More Information
.PP
More information can be obtained from the Vega Strike website at http://vega-strike.org/.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS
-d\<directory\>
.PP
<directory> specifies the game data directory used.
.PP
Default: /usr/share/vegastrike/data
.SS
-p<x>,<y>,<z>
.PP
Forces the player's starting location to be at x=1024, y=2405, z=1245090101
.SS
-j<sector>/<system>
.PP
Forced the player to start in the specified system and sector.
.PP
For example, -jgemini_sector/troy would start the player in the Troy System of the Gemini Sector.
.SS
missionname
.PP
Specifies the mission within the game to run.
.PP
Default: /usr/share/vegastrike/data/mission/exploration/explore_universe.mission
.SH
CONFIGURATION FILE
.PP
The default configuration file is $HOME/.vegastrike/vegastrike.config.
.PP
The configuration file is modified by the
.ft I
vegasettings
.ft P
program for most important configuration items. Other options, such as the key bindings, may be found
via the README included in the documentation, the Wiki Site, and other Vega Strike resources.
.SH
COPYRIGHT
.PP
\(co
2001-2020 Danial Horn
.br
\(co
2002-2020 Vega Strike Community Contributors
.SH
AUTHORS
.PP
Vega Strike is a community work thanks to the many developers that make up the Vega Strike Community Contributors.
.PP
Among the many contributors a special thanks goes to Daniel Horn for starting Vega Strike.
.PP
Please see https://github.com/vegastrike/Vega-Strike-Engine-Source/blob/master/AUTHORS for a listing.
.SH
LICENSE
.PP
Vega Strike is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3. See https://github.com/vegastrike/Vega-Strike-Engine-Source/blob/master/LICENSE for details.
.SH
BUGS
.PP
For a list of bugs see https://github.com/vegastrike/Vega-Strike-Engine-Source/issues.
.SS
Reporting Bugs
.PP
If you want to report a bug, please tell us which mission you ran, copy the last few lines of stdout and stderr, and describe the bug in detail, and what lead up to it.  It would be most helpful if you included a stack trace by compiling and running vegastrike from source.
.PP
Bugs can be submitted directly to https://github.com/vegastrike/Vega-Strike-Engine-Source/issues, or via our Forums, or Vega Strike Users <users@lists.vega-strike.org>.
.PP
If you have a security sensitive bug please contact us at security@lists.vega-strike.org.
.SH
AVAILABILITY
.PP
The most recent public version of Vega Strike can be obtained from https://github.com/vegastrike/Vega-Strike-Engine-Source/releases.
.PP
The source can be found at https://github.com/vegastrike/Vega-Strike-Engine-Source.
.SH
COMMUNITY
.PP
Vega Strike has a many ways to access the community:
.SS
Gitter.im
.PP
https://gitter.im/vegastrike/community
.SS
Online Forum
.PP
https://forums.vega-strike.org/
.SS
Mailing Lists
.PP
https://lists.vega-strike.org/listinfo/
.PP
Security issues can be sent to security@lists.vega-strike.org.
.SS
Wikis
.PP
https://wiki.vega-strike.org/Vegastrike
.PP
https://github.com/vegastrike/Vega-Strike-Engine-Source/wiki
.SH
FILES
.SS
/usr/bin/vegastrike-engine
.PP
The Vega Strike Game Engine
.SS
/usr/bin/vegastrike
.PP
The Vega Strike Game Engine using the local directory as the default for the game assets.
.SS
/usr/bin/vegasettings
.PP
The Vega Strike Configuration Editor
.SS
~/.vegastrike/
.PP
Configuration Directory
.SS
~/.vegastrike/vegastrike.config
.PP
The default user configuration file
.SS
/usr/share/vegastrike
.PP
The Vega Strike: Upon the Coldest Sea Game Data
.SH
See Also
.PP
https://wiki.vega-strike.org/Manual:Tutorial
